In peripheral artery disease, or PAD,
fatty material called plaque
builds up inside the walls of arteries
that supply blood and oxygen to your limbs,
especially your legs.
Plaque can reduce blood flow,
so the muscle cells in your legs
don’t get the oxygen they need.
Depending on the severity,
treatment for PAD can include
lifestyle changes, medications,
and interventional and surgical procedures.
Lifestyle changes are designed
to reduce the factors that contribute to the disease,
like quitting smoking and losing excess weight.
Medications can help improve blood flow
and treat conditions like
high blood pressure and high cholesterol.
Interventional and surgical procedures may be used
to treat more severe PAD.
In a procedure called
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty - PTA,
or just angioplasty,
a long thin tube called a catheter
with a balloon on its tip
is inserted into the blocked artery.
The balloon is inflated to flatten the plaque
against the artery wall.
Sometimes a mesh-like device called a stent
is left in place to help keep the artery open.
The blockage may also be surgically removed.
In some cases, a bypass procedure may be performed
to reroute blood flow around the blocked area.
If you have PAD,
talk to your doctor about the best
treatment options for you
and how you can keep it from progressing.